Speakers are first listed where many authors: 1, 5, 6 and 7 originate from the same group of workers.
Two of them are on the theme multiplex networks.  Some speakers did not give titles (we did not, after all,
ask for such).

3) Structure of complex networks: Quantifying edge-to-edge relations by failure-induced flow
redistribution 
Michael T. Schaub (Imperial), Jörg Lehmann, Sophia N. Yaliraki, and Mauricio Barahona

Definite accept: Not on theme really but good work

10) Untitled talk on language evolution
Dario Papavassiliou (Warwick)

Definite accept: Interesting topic, on theme, the sort of talk we should have
at MoN.

-----


1) Structural measures for multiplex networks  
F. Battiston (QMUL), V. Nicosia, V. Latora 

Probably Accept (or merge): Looks really interesting, slightly on theme



4) Multi-layer functional networks: have we got the basics right?  
Massimiliano Zanin (The Innaxis Foundation)
[Speaker only 95% sure but will let us know by Friday]

Probable Accept: Interesting, not quite on theme

5) Interdisciplinarity and specialisation: Roads to scientific success 
Moreno Bonaventura (QMUL) , Vincenzo Nicosia, Vito Latora and Pietro Panzarasa 

Probable Accept (possible merge): Not quite on theme but really very interesting.

9) What is the dimension of citation space?
James Clough (Imperial), Tim Evans

Probable accept: I love the idea of tying in the physics angle here --
not quite on theme which is the only thing that takes it from definite to probable.

6) Homophily and social dependence: Revisiting mechanisms of tie creation in social networks 
Valerio Ciotti (QMUL), Vito Latora, and Pietro Panzarasa

Probably Accept (possible merge): Not quite on theme but interesting stuff

7) Simmelian brokerage	and	social capital:	Reconciling	social cohesion	and	structural holes	
Vito Latora (QMUL), Vincenzo Nicosia, Pietro Panzarasa	

Probable accept (possible merge): Not quite on theme, interesting research

11) Untitled talk on regional economic growth
Arnaud Dyevre (LSE)

Probable accept (weakest in this class): I *think* he is correlating an
economics measure with a graph measure which is interestinng.

------

8) Can Chaos Theory Revolutionise Traffic Management In Urban Signalised Networks?
Narh, A. T,  Hill, G. A., Thorpe N., Bell, M. C.

Probable reject: Not sure what is the network aspect here

13) Individual vs. Social Heuristics:  Exploring Strategies of Optimal Information Sharing and Pooling in Stochastic Unstructured Networks
Ashish Umre (Sussex)

Probable reject: Not much information to  tell about what is going on here and we have more offers where we have more information.

-------

12) Investigating the dynamics of chat room user’s behaviour using response waiting time in communication network
Gibson O. Ikoro (QMUL), Raul Mondragon, Graham White

Definite reject: While I'm sure this is statistically reasonable, I'm not sure it teaches us
anything about networks.


2) Nonlinear vibration of a happiness model with commensurate fractional-order derivative  
Andrew Leung (Huddersfield)

Definite reject: Doesn't make any sense, no mention of network
