Title: Cascades on correlated and modular networks

Speaker: Prof. J.P. Gleeson, University of Limerick, Ireland

Abstract:

An analytical approach to determining the mean avalanche size in a 
broad class of dynamical models on random networks is introduced. 
Previous results on percolation transitions and epidemic sizes are 
shown to be special cases of the method. The time-dependence of 
cascades and extensions to networks with community structure or 
degree-degree correlations are discussed. Analytical results for the 
rate of spread of innovations (Watts, 2002) in a modular network and 
for the size of k-cores (Dorogotsev et al, 2006) in networks with 
degree-degree correlations are confirmed with numerical simulations.

 

The dynamics of cascades are strongly dependent upon the topological 
structure of the underlying network and on the details of how the 
cascade spreads among the nodes of the network. In the class of 
examples considered here, each node of the network can be in one of 
two states, either active (also termed damaged or infected) or 
inactive (undamaged or susceptible), with nodes updating their states 
depending on the number and state of the node's immediate neighbors 
in the (undirected) network. Networks are chosen from an ensemble of 
graphs with specified degree distribution (i.e. using the 
configuration model (Newman et al, 2001)), and both synchronous and 
asynchronous updating may be considered. We show that for a class of 
such models the average cascade size may be determined analytically 
(averages being taken over an ensemble of realizations) (Gleeson and 
Cahalane, 2007). This basic model is also extended to networks with 
strong community structure or with degree-degree correlations. 
Previous results on percolation and k-core sizes are shown to be 
special cases of our general approach.

 

References:

S.N. Dorogovtsev, A.V. Goltsev, and J.F.F. Mendes (2006): k-Core 
organization of complex networks. Phys. Rev. Lett., 96, 040601.

J.P. Gleeson and D.J. Cahalane (2007): Seed size strongly affects 
cascades on random networks.  Phys. Rev. E., 75, 056103.

M.E.J. Newman, S.H. Strogatz, and D.J. Watts (2001): Random graphs 
with arbitrary degree distributions and their applications. Phys. 
Rev. E, 64, 026118.

D.J. Watts (2002): A simple mode of global cascades on random 
networks. Proc. Nat. Acad. Sci. 99, 5766.
